1)J2SE: JAVASTANDERD EDITION 
   ----------
  CORE JAVA + JDBC :

2)J2EE :-
    
    Servlets, jsp, EJB, STRUTS,SPRING, SPRINGBOOT, HIBERNATE,

  WEBSERVICE:- soap webservice, restfullwebservice.

------------------
  
java featurs:
--------

1)Simple: 
    Java is very easy to learn, and its syntax is simple, clean and easy to understand.
    Java syntax is based on C++ (so easier for programmers to learn it after C++).
    Java has removed many complicated and rarely-used features, for example, explicit pointers, operator overloading, etc.
    There is no need to remove unreferenced objects because there is an Automatic Garbage Collection in Java.

2)Platform Independet.
    Java is platform independent because it is different from other languages like C, C++, etc. 
    which are compiled into platform specific machines while Java is a write once, run anywhere language.
3)Por/table.
    Java is portable because it facilitates you to carry the Java bytecode to any platform. 
    It doesn't require any implementation.
4)Object Oriented.
    1)class
    2)Object,
    3)Encaptualtion
    4)Abstraction
    5)Inheritence  ect.....
5)Secure.
    Java is best known for its security. With Java, we can develop virus-free systems. Java is secured because:
    No explicit pointer.
    Java Programs run inside a virtual machine sandbox.
    java has Classloader system , Bytecode Verifier and Security Manager systems will be implemented.
     
6)Robust     
  Robust means strong. 
  It uses strong memory management.
  There is a lack of pointers that avoids security problems.
  Java provides automatic garbage collection which runs on the Java Virtual Machine to get rid of objects which are not being used by a Java application anymore.
  There are exception handling and the type checking mechanism in Java. All these points make Java robust.

7)Distributed
   Java is distributed because it facilitates users to create distributed applications in Java. 
   RMI and EJB are used for creating distributed applications. 
   This feature of Java makes us able to access files by calling the methods from any machine on the internet.

8)Multithreaded.
    A thread is like a separate program, executing concurrently.
    We can write Java programs that deal with many tasks at once by defining multiple threads. 
    The main advantage of multi-threading is that it doesn't occupy memory for each thread. 
    It shares a common memory area. Threads are important for multi-media, Web applications, etc.


DataType:
---------
   Data types specify the different sizes and values that can be stored in the variable.
   There are two types of data types in Java:

    Primitive data types: The primitive data types include boolean, char, byte, short, int, long, float and double.
    Non-primitive data types: The non-primitive data types String, Classes, Interfaces, and Arrays.

varaible:
----------------------
      varable: A varable is name which is used to store a data value into data name.
  
   int  x = 10;
   String name="raju";
  System.out.println(name);

   int id=3045;
   String empName="Raju";
   int mobilenum=980990045;
   char ch='r';
  
 Java Having 3 types of variables.
---------------------------------

   1)Instance variable or non static variables.
   2)static variable.
   3)local variables.

Keyword: it is predefined word which acts as a key to code.
---------
datatypes:    byte,short,int,float,double, string, boolean ,char
flow control: if,else, switch,case,default, for, while,do, continue 
Exception Handling : try,catch,finally,throw, throws
Object level:  new,super,this,intanceof
methods: void, return
sourcefile : class,extends,interface,implements,package,import
modifiers: public,private,proteced, default, final, static,abstract,shychronized, stricfp,volatie.

sample java class:
--------

 Acessmodifiers   keyword  className{

}
  

   public class Test{
    // code
    varable, methods, constructors, blocks
}

  



